Feat/Add 3scale high availability documentation (#15)
3scale/3scale-Operations: docs/components.adoc

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

= Components

> This section explains what are the responsibilities of every 3scale component, and which is the impact if any of each component pods of the 3scale deployment are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains what the responsibilities of every 3scale component are and what is the impact when each of them is not available.
```

image::../images/3scale-pods-by-type.png[3scale pods by Type]

toc::[]

== apicast-production

=== Responsibilities
* 3scale API Gateway
* APIcast enforces traffic policies, either returning an error or proxying the API call to the customer’s API backend
* APIcast fetches its operating configuration from `system-app` component when the gateway starts
* Each incoming/managed API call produces a sync/auth request from the API Gateway to `backend-listener`
* Reduces latency by introducing the API Gateway in the traffic flow

=== Impact when down

> * Clients will not be able to reach the provider's API using that apicast instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clients will not be able to reach the provider's API using that APIcast instance
```

== apicast-staging

=== Responsibilities
* Same as `apicast-production`, but affecting staging traffic

=== Impact when down
* Same as `apicast-production`, but affecting staging traffic

== backend-listener

=== Responsibilities
* This is the most critical component, responsible for authorizing and rate-limiting requests

=== Impact when down

> * APIcast is not be able to tell whether a request should be authorized or not and simply denies everything

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* APIcast will not be able to tell whether a request should be authorized or not and simply denies everything
```

* APIs configured using 3scale are down

> * This service distuption can be mitigated by using the APIcast auth caching policy, but before using it, make sure to check whether the trade-offs it makes suit your use case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This service distuption can be mitigated by using the APIcast auth caching policy. There are some trade-offs when using this policy, so make sure you understand the implications before using it.
```

A link to somewhere where those trade-offs are explained is what I, as a reader, would expect here. Is this documented somewhere?

Author: I dont think so, I guess the trade-off is implicit
- If you use it, for small outages your apis will continue to work, but maybe using outdated config
- What do you prefer? being down? being up muy with possible outdated conf?

Author: Added tradeoffs https://github.com/3scale/3scale-Operations/commit/fa4c6c1d4634b391e76d81375d06abd1ecc16aa9

== backend-worker

=== Responsibilities
* Process the background jobs created by `backend-listener`

> * Runs enqueued jobs, mainly related to reporting of previous traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Runs enqueued jobs, mainly related to traffic reporting
```

If it is reporting it necessarily refers to something in the past, right?

=== Impact when down
* Reported metrics can't be made effective, so the rate-limiting functionality loses accuracy because those pending reports are not taken into account
* Statistics will not be up to date and the alerts and errors shown in the admin portal will not be triggered
* Because accounting will not work, authorizations will not be correct

> * Jobs will not be processed and will start accumulating in `backend-redis`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Jobs will not be processed and will start accumulating in `backend-redis`, which could lead to database out of memory related problems
```

== backend-cron

=== Responsibilities

> * This is a simple task that acts as a cron scheduler to requeue failed jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This is a simple task that acts as a cron like scheduler to retry failed jobs
```

* When a `backend-worker` job fails, it is pushed to a "failed jobs" queue so that it can be retried later. Jobs can fail, for example, when there's a Redis timeout
* It is also responsible for deleting the stats of services that have been removed. This is run every 24h

=== Impact when down
* Failed jobs will not be rescheduled

> * If crashes in the middle of the delete process, it will just continue the next time it runs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If it crashes in the middle of the delete process, it will just continue the next time it runs
```

> * If 3scale deployment is working correctly, the failed jobs queues will be empty almost at all times, so `backend-cron` being down is not critical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the 3scale installation is working correctly, the failed jobs queue will be empty at almost all times, so `backend-cron` being down is not critical
```

I think `3scale deployment` should avoided as a reader could think this refers to an OCP `Deployment` resource, which is not the case. `3scale installation` could be used to avoid this.

== backend-redis

=== Responsibilities

> * It is the DB used by `backend-listener` and `backend-worker`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is the database used by `backend-listener` and `backend-worker`
```

Let's try and reduce the use of acronym to the base minimum :sweat_smile:

> * It is used to both data persistance (metrics...) and enqueued jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is used both for data persistence (metrics...) and to store job queues
```

Specifying `metrics` here could confuse the reader into thinking that it refers to prometheus metrics. Maybe `stats` is a better term? not sure though ...

Author: I think this is the exact work used in the product, I extracted this from tech slides

=== Impact when down

> * `backend-listener` and `backend-worker` stop working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `backend-listener` and `backend-worker` cannot function without access to the storage, so both components can be considered as down. Refer to the sections on `backend-listener` and `backend-worker` to review impact when these components are down
```

== system-app

=== Responsibilities
* Developer and Admin Portal UI/API
* 3scale APIs (Accounts, Analytics)

=== Impact when down

> * Developer and Admin Portal UI/API will be down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Developer and Admin Portal UI/API will not be available
```

> * 3scale APIs (Accounts, Analytics) will be down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 3scale APIs (Accounts, Analytics) will not be available
```

* `apicast` will not be able to retrieve the gateway configuration, so new `apicast` deployments will not work

> * But current `apicast` pods will still serve traffic with latest downloaded configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Already running `apicast` pods will continue serving traffic using the latest retrieved configuration (cached)
```

== system-sidekiq

=== Responsibilities
* It is the job manager used by `system-app` to process jobs in the background asynchronously

=== Impact when down
* Emails are not sent
* Communication with `backend-listener` breaks: changes in Admin Portal will not propagate to Backend
* Backend alerts will not be triggered
* Webhooks will not be triggered
* Zync will not receive any updates

> * Background jobs will not be processed and will start accumulating in `system-redis`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Background jobs will not be processed and will start accumulating in `system-redis`, , which could lead to database out of memory related problems
```

> == system-mysql

Reviewer: Can't system database also be a postgreSQL?

Author: Yes, but TBH I've not found any doc about it on current ha docs, tech slides...

I've checked that can be created by the operator, and its name is `system-postgresql`, will add it

Author: Fixed https://github.com/3scale/3scale-Operations/commit/0f4f10309441d9abc1a2c44ce377a6a7ce4bd84c

=== Responsibilities

> * It is the DB used by `system-app`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is the main relational database used by `system-app`
```

=== Impact when down

> * `system-app` stops working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Both `system-app` and `system-sidekiq` components can be considered down if access to the relational database is lost. Refer to the sections on `system-app` and `system-sidekiq` to review impact when these components are down
```

== system-redis

=== Responsibilities

> * It is the DB used by `system-app` as a queue for sidekiq jobs processed by `system-sidekiq`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is the database used by `system-app` to enqueue the jobs consumed by `system-sidekiq`
```

=== Impact when down
* Background jobs are not stored

> * Billing does not run

Reviewer: * `system-sidekiq` component can be considered down if access to the database is lost.  Refer to the section on `system-sidekiq` to review impact when this components are down

I think it's better to refer to the section about sidekiq being down that repeating the impact.

Author: Fixed https://github.com/3scale/3scale-Operations/commit/0f4f10309441d9abc1a2c44ce377a6a7ce4bd84c

== system-memcache

=== Responsibilities

> * Memcached is an ephemeral cache of values used to speed-up the performance of the `system-app` web application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `system-memcached` is an ephemeral cache of values used to speed-up the performance of the `system-app` web application
```

=== Impact when down

> * `system-app` misses its cache (mostly used by the UI to speed-up page loading but also by billing), making `system-app` to run slightly slower while the cache is rebuilt

Reviewer: misses? Sounds like `system-app` is sasd because it lost it's little memcached ... :smile: 

```suggestion
* `system-app` will run slightly slower (UI page loading times will be worse) while the cache is not accessible. Cache will be rebuilt once the memcached instance is back online.
```

== system-sphinx

=== Responsibilities

> * Fulltext search for `system-app` (caching some `system-mysql` content)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Full-text search for `system-app`.
```

"caching" is not an accurate term to describe an FTS

=== Impact when down
* The search functionality on the `system-app` Admin/Developer Portal (accounts and proxy rules search bars, templates, forum searches...) stops working

== zync

=== Responsibilities

* Receives events from `system-sidekiq`
* Enqueue those events as new jobs to be processed in the background by `zync-que`
* Those enqueued jobs can be:
- Creation/Update of OpenShift Routes (Admin/Developer portals of each tenant)
- Creation/Update of OpenShift Routes (`apicast-staging` or `apicast-production` domains of each API)
- Synchronization of information with configured 3rd party IDPs

=== Impact when down

> * New jobs for OpenShift Routes creation or modification to `apicast-staging` and `apicast-production` cannot be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization of OpenShift Routes for `apicast-staging` and `apicast-production` will not work
```

> * New jobs for OpenShift Route creation or modification to Admin Portal and Developer Portal domains for new tenants cannot be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization of OpenShift Routes for the Admin Portal and the Developer Portal domains will not work
```

> * New jobs for creation or Updates of Application (IDP) configuration cannot be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization with 3rd party IDPs will not work
```

* `system-sidekiq` will retry the failed requests for some time

== zync-que

=== Responsibilities
* Process the enqueued jobs created by `zync`
* Those jobs can be:
- Creation/Update of OpenShift Routes (Admin/Developer portals of each tenant)
- Creation/Update of OpenShift Routes (`apicast-staging` or `apicast-production` domains of each API)
- Synchronization of information with configured 3rd party IDPs

=== Impact when down

> * Routes to `apicast-staging` or `apicast-production` cannot be created or updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization of OpenShift Routes for `apicast-staging` and `apicast-production` will not work
```

> * New OpenShift Routes to Admin Portal and Developer Portal domains for new tenants cannot be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization of OpenShift Routes for the Admin Portal and the Developer Portal domains will not work

> * Creation or Updates of Application configuration are not synchronised to 3rd Party IdPs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization with 3rd party IDPs will not work
```

> * Jobs will not be processed and will start accumulating in `zync-database`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Jobs will not be processed and will start accumulating in `zync-database`, which could lead to database out of memory related problems
```

Author: Fixed https://github.com/3scale/3scale-Operations/commit/0f4f10309441d9abc1a2c44ce377a6a7ce4bd84c, on that case is disk space not memory because it is postgres

== zync-database

=== Responsibilities

> * It is the DB used by `zync`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is the database used by `zync`
```

* It contains job queues and also some data synchronized from `system-app`

=== Impact when down

> * `zync` will not be able to enqueue jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `zync` will not be able to enqueue jobs and `zync-que` will not be able to consume them, so both components can be considered down when database access is lost. Refer to the sections on `zync` and `zync-que` to review impact when these components are down
```
